# PGP for Verification of Identity

## Introduction
This repository hosts a proof-of-concept application demonstrating a "challenge-response" protocol for verifying identity using Pretty Good Privacy (PGP). This method is particularly useful for enhancing the security of user logins and can serve as a robust tool against bots or as part of two-factor authentication systems, without requiring Know Your Customer (KYC) procedures.

## Key Features
- **Challenge-Response Authentication**: The application generates a random challenge message that users must encrypt using their private PGP key. Successful encryption and subsequent decryption by the server using the corresponding public key confirm the user's identity.
- **Enhanced Security**: Public keys are submitted during account creation and stored securely. Private keys remain confidential and are never transmitted over the network.
- **User Privacy**: Ensures that the identity verification process is private and secure, suitable for environments requiring high security without extensive personal data collection.


## Usage
1. **Visit the Application**: Go to the hosted application on Streamlit at [PGP Verification App](https://sooox-pgp-verification.streamlit.app/).
2. **Submit Your Public Key**: Enter your PGP public key in the provided text area. This step simulates the public key submission that would occur during account creation.
3. **Encrypt the Challenge Message**: Use your private PGP key to encrypt the randomly generated message displayed on the app.
4. **Verify Identity**: Submit the encrypted message back to the application. The app will attempt to decrypt it using your public key. Successful decryption verifies your identity.

## Installation
To run this application locally, you'll need Python and the following packages:
- `streamlit`
- `pgpy`

You can install these directly using pip:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

Or manually install the necessary packages:

```bash
pip install streamlit pgpy
```

After installation, run the application using:

```bash
streamlit run app.py
```

## How It Works
- The application utilizes PGP (Pretty Good Privacy) encryption standards to ensure secure communication.
- A random message is generated by the server (challenge) and needs to be encrypted by the user using their private key.
- The encrypted message is then decrypted by the server using the user's public key. Successful decryption confirms the identity of the user.

## Potential Use Cases
- **Private Messaging Platforms**: Integrate into platforms as a secure method to verify identities.
- **Secure Business Communications**: Use in environments where sensitive data is exchanged, requiring assured user identity.
- **Two-Factor Authentication Systems**: Implement as a part of 2FA to provide an additional layer of security without personal data.

Feel free to clone, modify, and use it in your projects!
